---
layout: post
title:  "how to live?"
date:   2024-06-15
categories: jekyll update
---

A,

> Too things to note, first I didn't get the homophone nor the entendre.

I can't tell if this was one of your typos or some clever meta homophone
insertion. As for my entendre, it was some bad joke about S's and chicanes of a
race track.

Anyhow, I agree about how emotions have a way of regressing to the mean. But I
had a slightly hard month and a half where I found my mean mood itself dropping.
This meant that even when my days were punctuated with happiness (there's lots
for me to be happy about) it eventually regressed to my lowly mean, and I
couldn't figure out why. I also had this absurd way where my sleep constantly
got interrupted because I heard my doorbell ringing—except it never did because
it's some auditory hallucination made by my brain while I'm asleep. Lack of
sleep compounds into other problems. You already know this.

I have learnt a lot about [how to
live](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Boy_and_the_Heron) over the last couple
of years. For one, I pulled the internal levers that you referred to in your
last letter. I framed my situation as a redemption arc waiting to be finished. I
didn't actually feel all that bad at a meta level about my baseline mood
regressing. If that makes any sense. I knew I might some day even write about
how I surmounted a hard time. It's free memoir material. And yes, I'm at much
better levels of baseline mood now. I can't point to what exactly worked, and it
seems more art than science at the moment.

I also used my other trick—I followed stupid sounding obvious advice. I started
going to sleep early, reduced electronic usage around bedtime and temporarily
quit caffeine (not that I was addicted, but it probably wouldn't assist in
recovering my sleep). I instead did some deep-rest type meditations before
sleeping. These interventions brought down my fake doorbell sleep interruptions
from around five per night to about zero or one in less than a span of a week.
The nice thing is that just like bad sleep, the effect of good sleep also
compounds. You know this too.

These are just a couple of random tactics that I have picked up in the process
of figuring out How To Live. But what's the _strategy_? I had a friend recently
tell me with an intense earnestness that I matter to them a lot and that they
are so glad to have me in their life<sup>1</sup>. And that this was a common
sentiment among other friends in that group. This was a big deal to me because
I've been trying to show up a lot more for these group of friends because I like
them very much. But I was also being ever so slightly distant till that point
because I was not sure if they thought the same of me<sup>2</sup>.

Currently, I feel like the _strategy_ for How To Live is to live wholly and
deeply with a big, big heart. Make it as large and open as possible. I almost
don't like this because of how schmaltzy this sounds. But I can explain what
living with a big heart means. It's not all that different from what you heard
from Seinfeld. It's to fall in love with people, cats, lizards, things and
places. It's to be genuinely curious about everything, be honest with everyone
(starting with yourself) and welcome the world wholly. I have found it
occasionally scary and even risky to live with such earnestness (as evidenced by
my anecdote above). But when I do meet the world with that kind of conviction it
has been extremely rewarding. One can always make their heart bigger.

I have felt that you've also figured this out independently. Your heart as well
as zest for the world seems to be getting bigger these days. It's why I'm
excited to meet you soon at NYC. Also that list of fun things slaps.

See you soon,
AR

<sup>1</sup>Happened at Boiler Room Bangalore, such a great setting for this
kind of conversation.

<sup>2</sup>Just as I wrote the paragraph above, another friend who I think is
very cool told me that they'll miss me when I'm off to NYC and asked me to stay
in touch by sending some photos of my trip. I didn't really think that they
considered me like that.
