---
layout: post
title:  "bathing dishes like it's baby jesus with my murder gloves"
date:   2024-05-15
categories: jekyll update
---

Hey A,

The Seinfeld speech is a solid one, I checked it out. I somehow feel like
"falling in love" is a corollary to "pay attention". A common belief is that
love is something you cannot chose, you kinda just "fall" into it. While this is
sometimes true, a good deal of it can be  manifested through the mechanism of
attention.

Speaking of attention, when my flatmates and I hosted a house party last month,
we had a guest, AP, who's a close friend of my flatmate (close enough that she
has the keys to our place). She had come early to help make the cocktails. This
was on a Saturday when the house help that does our dishes suddenly took leave.
This meant that we had a large pile of unattended dishes.

AP's lavender and mango-based cocktails were blocked by access to utensils that
were a dirty mess under a huge pile in the sink. And she hated doing the dishes.
I told her it's no worry. She was a guest for the house party after all -
volunteering to make some banger cocktails was already a great privilege for us.
I brought out my iconic rubber gloves (more on that soon) on and started
tackling the dishes.

I nonchalantly told her that I have a great hack for getting through dishes. "Do
your dishes like you're bathing baby Jesus. This trick really works. Wanna try?"

Truth be told, this wasn't some trick that I actually ever applied. I was being
a bit fraudulent. But fast forward an hour and AP had done almost all of the
dishes herself _and_ made cocktails for everyone. It worked like magic. She got
through the dishes and perhaps even liked it because of my silly turn of phrase
that I got from who-knows-where (a phrase that I too am now a fan of).

A note on the iconic rubber gloves. I like to call them murder gloves. They look
like the exact kind of thing you'd want to wear when hiding a body - long,
clinical, sturdy, light green and a little floppy at the forearms. It's another
hack I have to get me excited about doing cleaning work that I would normally
consider a chore. I usually do a bit when I pull up my gloves with more gusto
than necessary and adopt a surgically murderous body language. And then do the
dishes or clean the bathrooms or the fridge.

Life is definitely messy. There will always be something that doesn't go my way.
But I'd still rate it a 10/10. I got my gloves, dirty dishes and a questionable
sense of humour, after all.

Cheers,  
AR

