---
layout: post
title:  "flakes, korean ghouls et cetera"
date:   2024-05-20
categories: jekyll update
---

Hey A,

I regret to inform you that my gloves are not metaphorical. They very much
exist. I may not be that sophisticated with my metaphor usage, but at least I
spell my words right.

I also loved the cocktail recipes, and everclear eno is definitely something
that will be a part of my house parties from now on. Very healthy, indeed.

One of my flatmates is moving out due to a new job in a different city. Thus, we
have to find a replacement. I was on the other end of this situation about two
months ago when I moved in to replace a flatmate in this house.

My flat is really lovely. When I first saw the images I knew this was a great
find. I moved very quickly. I texted S (my now flatmate) the moment I saw the
place on a flat-share listing and asked for more pictures. Then I scheduled a
visit the next day. Turns out, the place is better in person than in the
pictures. I confirmed to S that I want the flat the next day.

Now that I am in S's position, I realised that most people don't make decisions
this quickly. They don't know what they want and then chicken out at when a
decision of consequence has to be made<sup>*</sup>.

I also did the unusual (for me) thing of watching two movies in cinema over two
days. One was a Korean horror movie called _Exhuma_. It was a fun movie—a bit
cookie cutter with the actual plot elements and supernatural tropes, but
reframing it all through Korean shamanism and Feng Shui stuff kept it fresh and
fun enough. I also liked how they wove the history of Korea into the plot even
if that meant that I had to accept that Japanese ghosts are generically
murderous, while Korean ghosts only kill people in revenge.

The next morning, I had masala dosé from the half a century old Sri Mahalakshmi
Refreshments before I saw Miyazaki's last movie, _The Boy and The Heron_. This
was my first Ghibli film, and in terms of pure craft and imaginativeness of the
studio I see the hype. I enjoyed the film, although it was quite dense, and the
niceness of it only hit much after it ended. Might warrant a rewatch.

Anyhow, I'm also done with watching other people's films for a while. I look
forward to making some of my own (a short one about trash) soon. And perhaps
when I get to NYC I'll be able to see some good ol' musicals. A colleague
who's been to New York recommended Hadestown to me.

Later,  
AR

<sup>*</sup> I will unsubtly point out that there is a racing double entendre
via a comedic homophone in that sentence.

